# Space-Shoot-Em-Up
A space arcade shooter, use the arrow keys or WASD keys to move and space to shoot.
Brandon Yingling 
5/2/2022 
Object Oriented Programming 
 
Final Project Documentation 
 
   When I first started on my final project, I wanted to do something game oriented as I had done in game design which I had already previously done. I decided to start simple and create a version of Pong in visual studio using C#. I initially created a considerably basic version of pong that mimicked the actual game, but the player is against an AI version of the opposing paddle instead of another player. I moved on from that by creating a difficulty system that would increase the speed at which the paddle will move across the screen and track the ball. However, in the end I decided to scrap the project and start over because the ball would glitch through the enemy AI if it hit the paddle at the right angle. It was also because the ball would speed up too much and there would be no way to slow it down. 
   My next idea and what I ultimately decided to go with was a project from the Introduction to game design book. While I had used projects in there before they were simple ones like Apple Picker or Mission Demolition. I decided to go with Space SHMU as I felt it would be more of a challenge and challenge my ability to use Unity. I especially wanted to use Unity after C# because I wanted to get more used to coding in the program. When I first started, I went out of order and created everything for the ship. This was the prefabricated of the ship including the projectile that would be shot out of the ship. While the created errors initially as I slowly added the scripts to the game those errors would disappear. After I created the spaceship and the movement worked, including the projectile, I had to move onto the boundaries. This is because the way the camera was set up the ship would go outside the boundary. Besides this the projectile would continuously move forward and slow down the game to a crawl. 
   This would also prevent the projectile from being fired again because it would only fire a single shot before being reset. After creating the game boundaries and collision detection of the game it ran much smoother than before. Next, I had to work on the enemy ships themselves so there was something to shoot at. I created all prefabricated layouts from the book because it gave a good idea of what these ships should look like. After creating the enemy ships and creating the script that would allow them to move. I also included lines of code that would kill the player ship and restart the game after a certain delay in time. How these ships were set up they would spawn in various locations, bounce off each other, and make their way down the screen to the player. Another issue I did run into when making the game is the way the projective would sometime seemingly phase through the enemy ships to the edge of the screen not hitting anything. Despite this the book had a solution for it and I changed the size of the hit box on the Z axis to make it larger. 
    This allowed it to hit the enemy ship no matter which would spawn in place. I did add a score counter to the enemy ships as something to add in later with time however I did not get a chance, but I had left the code in there for future purposes. Another thing I added but to the player ship was the shield also as a later affect much like the score. Materials that were added to the shield and the projectile were from a graphics pack that the book listed which I added and gave both a white opaque look to them. The shield itself would have been activated by hitting a box and disabled by an enemy projectile. Another component that I added but also was not implemented at was the ability for the enemies to shoot back and kill the player. 
   However, in the end I took it out because each attack from the enemy ships would kill any that were below it instead of passing through to hit the player. While I worked on that for some time it did not work. At one point if they did fire on the enemy ship that had just fired that projectile would fly off to the left or right depending on which direction it was going. Towards the end, however, I made the choice to only include the first iteration of the enemy ship. This was because the ships crowded the screen so much that it would slow the game. The crowding also made it harder to put a dent in the enemies which would result in quick game overs for the player. In the end it was the player vs multiple enemy ships of the same design because it allowed the game to play more optimally. I also chose this because it demonstrated everything we had learned in object-oriented programming. Overall, I created a simple arcade shooter that was fun to make as well as testing and improving my coding skill in Unity. 

